how to install a fence for this project
you'll need two people but the time it
takes will depend on how much fencing
you have to install you'll also need the
following tools a string line a spade a
fence post some hard core or gravel some
post mix cement a spirit level timber
battens
fence panels gravel boards post caps
finials if desired you brackets L
brackets and screws take a spade and dig
a hole about 600 millimeters deep and
300 millimeters square the actual depth
will depend on the height of the post
you are using as a rule of thumb you
should have a quarter of the total post
height in the ground if the ground is
really difficult to dig out it might be
worth investing in a bar and specialist
post hole Spade you can buy these at
most merchants when the hole is finished
fill the bottom with about an inch of
gravel or hard core this will help with
drainage and reduce the risk of the post
rotting in the future put the post into
the hole gradually fill the hole with
the dry post fix cement packing it down
while continually checking the level of
the post with your spirit level fill the
hole to about an inch from the top this
is so that when the job is finished you
can cover the top of the cement with
soil pour water over the cement screw a
couple of battens to the posts to make
sure that they remain securely upright
all the time checking the levels these
battens can be removed when the cement
is set once your first post is in you're
now ready to mark out the line of your
fencing using a string line unwind the
string and passing it in front of your
post take it where you want the fencing
to end
and stake it into the ground now you're
ready to fix your next post using a
baton cut to the same width as your
fence panel mark where your next post
needs to go and fix it using the same
method as before if you're installing a
dip treated fence panel you will need to
use a pressure treated gravel board at
the base of the panel to protect it
against rot fix the gravel board by
first marking and pre drilling the posts
then fix one L bracket at the base of
each post using a drill or electric
screwdriver when they are just about
tight enough you'll need to locate the
final position of the brackets by hand
using an adjustable spanner fix the
gravel boards through the brackets with
20 millimeter screws now you're ready to
fix the fence panel this time attached
to u brackets to the inside of each post
by marking out positions about 10 to 15
centimeters from the top and bottom of
the fence panel when you're back its are
fixed carefully lift your panel into
place and secure it through each bracket
if you're adding trellis to the top you
should have left yourself enough space
at the top of the posts attach one u
bracket to the inside of each post about
midway between the top and bottom of the
trellis fix the brackets with 35
millimeter screws slot your trellis in
place and fix with 35 millimeter screws
through the brackets the last job to do
is to finish each fence post with a post
cap this will help to protect the end
grain of the wood from taking in water
but at the same time it provides a neat
finish to your posts for a final
decorative flourish why not add a ball
or acorn finial to your finish fencing